Hi everybody and welcome to practical deep learning for coders lesson 4,
which I think is the lesson that a lot of the regulars in the community have been most excited
about because it's where we're going to get some totally new material,
totally new topic we've never covered before.
We're going to cover natural language processing in LP and you'll find there is indeed a chapter
about that in the book, but we're going to do it in a totally different way to how it's done in the book.
In the book we do NLP using the fast.ai library using recurrent neural networks, iron ends.
Today we're going to do something else, which is we're going to do transformers
and we're not even going to use the fast.ai library at all, in fact.
So what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be fine tuning a pre trained NLP model
using a library called hugging face transformers.
Now given this is the fast.ai course, you might be wondering why we'd be using a different library other than fast.ai.
The reason is that I think that it's really useful for everybody to have experience and practice
of using more than one library because you'll get to see the same concepts applied in different ways.
And I think that's great for your understanding of what these concepts are.
Also, I really like the hugging face transformers library.
It's absolutely the state of the art in NLP and it's well worth knowing.
If you're watching this on video by the time you're watching it,
we will probably have completed our integration of the transformers library into fast.ai.
So it's in the process of becoming the main NLP kind of foundation for fast.ai.
So you'll be able to combine transformers and fast.ai together.
Yeah, so I think there's a lot of benefits to this.
And in the end, you're going to know how to do an NLP in a really fantastic library.
Now, the other thing is hugging face transformers doesn't have the same layered architecture
that fast.ai has, which means particularly for beginners,
the kind of high level, high top tier API that you'll be using most of the time
is not as kind of ready to go for beginners as you're used to from fast.ai.
And so that's actually, I think, a good thing.
You have to listen for.
You know the basic idea now of how gradient descent works and how parameters are learned
as part of a flexible function.
I think you're ready to try using a somewhat lower level library
that does a little bit less for you.
So it's going to be a little bit more work.
It's still a very well designed library and it's still reasonably high level,
but you're going to learn to go a little bit deeper.
And that's kind of how the rest of the course in general is going to be on the whole,
is we're going to get a bit deeper and a bit deeper and a bit deeper.
Now, so first of all, let's talk about what we're going to be doing
with fine tuning a pre trained model.
We've talked about that in passing before,
but we haven't really been able to describe it in any detail
because you haven't had the foundations.
Now you do.
You played with these sliders last week.
And hopefully you've all actually gone into this notebook and dragged them around
and tried to get an intuition for this idea of moving them up and down,
makes the loss go up and down and so forth.
So imagine that your job was to move these sliders to get this as nice as possible.
But when it was given to you, the person who gave it to you said,
oh, actually, slider A, that should be on 2.0.
We know for sure.
And slider B, we think it's like around 2.5.
Sliders C, we've got no idea.
Now that would be pretty helpful, wouldn't it?
Because you could immediately start focusing on the one we have no idea about,
get that in roughly the right spot.
And then the one you've got a vague idea about,
you could just tune it a little bit.
And the one that they said was totally confident you wouldn't move at all,
you would probably tune these sliders really quickly.
That's what a pre trained model is.
A pre trained model is a bunch of parameters that have already been fit,
where some of them were already pretty confident of what they should be.
And some of them we really have no idea at all.
And so fine tuning is the process of taking those ones,
we have no idea what they should be at all and trying to get them right.
And then moving the other ones a little bit.
The idea of fine tuning a pre trained NLP model in this way
was pioneered by an algorithm called ULM fit,
which was first presented actually in a fast AI course.
I think the very first fast AI course.
It was later turned into an academic paper by me in conjunction with a
then PhD student named Sebastian Ruder, who's now one of the world's top NLP researchers,
and went on to help inspire a huge change,
a huge kind of step improvement in NLP capabilities around the world,
along with a number of other important innovations at the time.
This is the basic process that ULM fit described.
Step one was to build something called a language model,
using basically nearly all of Wikipedia.
And what the language model did was it tried to predict
the next word of a Wikipedia article.
In fact, every next word of every Wikipedia article.
During that is very difficult.
You know, there are Wikipedia articles which would say things like,
you know, the 17th prime number is dot dot dot.
Or the 40th president of the United States, Blah, said at his residence, Blah, that.
You know, filling in these kinds of things requires understanding a lot
about how language is structured, and about the world, and about math, and so forth.
So to get good at being a language model, a neural network has to get good at a lot of things.
It has to understand how language works at a reasonably good level,
and it needs to understand what it's actually talking about,
and what is actually true, and what is actually not true,
and the different ways in which things are expressed, and so forth.
So this was trained using a very similar approach
to what we'll be looking at for fine tuning, but it started with random weights,
and at the end of it, there was a model that could predict more than 30% of the time,
correctly what the next word of a Wikipedia article would be.
So in this particular case for the URL MFit paper, we then took that,
and we were trying to, the first task I did actually for the fast AI course back
when I invented this, was to try and figure out whether IMDB movie reviews
were positive or negative sentiment, did the person like the movie or not.
So what I did was I created a second language model,
so again, a language model here is something that predicts the next word of a sentence,
but rather than using Wikipedia, I took this pretrained model that was trained on Wikipedia,
and I ran a few more epochs using IMDB movie reviews.
So I got very good at predicting the next word of an IMDB movie review.
And then finally, I took those weights, and I fine tuned them for the task
of predicting whether or not a movie review was positive or negative sentiment.
So those were the three steps.
This is a particularly interesting approach because this very first model,
in fact the first two models, if you think about it,
they don't require any labels.
I didn't have to collect any document categories or do any kind of surveys or collect anything.
All I needed was the actual text of Wikipedia and movie reviews themselves,
because the labels was what's the next word of a sentence.
Now, since we built ULM fit, and we used RNNs,
to current neural networks with this, at about the same time ish that we released this,
a new kind of architecture, particularly useful for NLP at the time,
was developed called Transformers.
And Transformers were particularly built because they can take really good advantage
of modern accelerators like Google's TPUs.
They didn't really allow you to predict the next word of a sentence.
It's just not how they're structured for reasons we'll talk about,
probably in part two of the course.
So they threw away the idea of predicting the next word of a sentence,
and then instead they did something just as good and pretty clever.
They took chunks of Wikipedia or whatever text they're looking at
and deleted at random a few words and asked the model to predict
which, what were the words that were deleted, essentially.
So it's a pretty similar idea.
Other than that, the basic concept was the same as ULM fit.
They replaced our RNN approach with a transformer model.
They replaced our language model approach with what's called a masked language model.
But other than that, the basic idea was the same.
So today we're going to be looking at models using what's become
the much more popular approach than ULM fit,
which is this transformers masked language model approach.
OK, John, do we have any questions?
And I should mention we do have a professor from University of Queensland,
John Williams joining us, who will be asking the highest voted questions
from the community.
What do you got, John?
Thanks, Jeremy.
And we might be jumping the gun here.
I suspect this is where you're going tonight.
But we've got a good question here on the forum, which is,
how do you go from a model that's trained to predict the next word
to a model that can be used for classification?
Sure.
So yeah, we'll be getting into that in more detail.
And in fact, maybe a good place to start would be the next slide.
I kind of give you a sense of this.
You might remember in lesson one, we looked at this fantastic Xyla and Fergus
paper, where we looked at visualizations of the first layer
of a ImageNet classification model.
And layer one had sets of weights that found diagonal edges.
And here are some examples of bits of photos
that successfully matched with and opposite diagonal edges.
And kind of color gradients.
And here's some examples of bits of pictures that matched.
And then layer two combined, those.
And now you know how those were combined, right?
These were rectified linear units that were added together.
And then sets of those rectified linear units,
the outputs of those, they're called activations,
within themselves run through a matrix model
player, rectified linear unit, added together.
So now you don't just have to have edge detectors,
but layer two had corner detectors.
And here's some examples of some corners
that that corner detector successfully found.
And remember, these were not engineered in any way.
They just evolved from the gradient descent training process.
Layer two had examples of circle detectors, as it turns out.
And skipping a bit, by the time we got to layer five,
we had bird and lizard eyeball detectors, and dog face
detectors, and flower detectors, and so forth.
Now, nowadays, you'd have something like a resident 50.
It would be something you'd probably
be training pretty regularly in this course,
so that you've got 50 layers, not just five layers.
Now, the later layers do things that
are much more specific to the training task, which
is actually predicting really what is it
that we're looking at.
The early layers, pretty unlikely,
you're going to need to change them much,
as long as you're looking at some kind of natural photos.
You've got to need edge detectors and gradient detectors.
So what we do in the fine tuning process
is there's actually one extra layer after this, which
is the layer that actually says, what is this?
It's a dog or a cat or whatever.
We actually delete that.
We throw it away.
So now, that last Beatrix Model Play has one output,
or one output per category you're predicting.
We throw that away.
So the model now has that last matrix that's spitting out.
You know, it depends, but generally a few hundred
activations.
And what we do is, as we'll learn more shortly,
in the coming lesson, we just stick a new random matrix
on the end of that.
And that's what we initially train.
So it learns to use these kinds of features
to predict whatever it is you're trying to predict.
And then we gradually train all of those layers.
So that's basically how it's done.
And so it's a bit hand wavy, but we'll,
in particular in part two, actually build that from scratch
ourselves.
And in fact, in this lesson, time permitting,
we're actually going to start going down the process of actually
building a real world deep neural net in Python.
So we'll be starting to actually make some progress
towards that goal.
OK, so let's jump into the notebook.
So we're going to look at a Kaggle competition that's
actually on, as I speak.
And I created this notebook called Getting Started
within LP for absolute beginners.
And so the competition is called the US patent
phrase to phrase matching competition.
And so I'm going to take you through a complete submission
to this competition.
And Kaggle competitions are interesting,
particularly the ones that are not playground competitions.
But the real competitions with the real money applied,
they're interesting because this is an actual project
that an actual organization is prepared to invest money
in getting solved using their actual data.
So a lot of people are a bit dismissive of Kaggle
competitions as being kind of like not very real.
And it's certainly true.
You're not worrying about stuff like productionizing the model.
But in terms of getting real data about a real problem,
that real organizations really care about,
and a very direct way to measure the accuracy of your solution,
you can't really get better than this.
So this is a good place, a good competition
to experiment with for trying NLP.
Now, as I mentioned here, probably the most widely useful
application for NLP is classification.
And as we've discussed in computer vision,
classification refers to taking an object
and trying to identify a category that object belongs to.
So previously, we've mainly been looking at images.
Today, we're going to be looking at documents.
Now, in NLP, when we say document,
we don't specifically mean a 20 page long essay.
A document could be three or four words,
or a document could be the entire encyclopedia.
So a document is just an input to an NLP model
that contains text.
Now, classifying a document, so deciding
what category a document belongs to,
is a surprisingly rich thing to do.
There's all kinds of stuff you could do with that.
So for example, we've already mentioned sentiment analysis.
That's a classification task.
We're trying to decide on the category,
positive or negative sentiment.
Author identification would be taking a document
and trying to find the category of author.
Legal discovery would be taking documents
and putting them into categories, according to in or out
of scope for a court case.
Triaging inbound emails would be putting them
into categories of throw away, send to customer service,
send to sales, et cetera.
So classification is a very, very rich area.
And for people interested in trying out NLP in real life,
I would suggest classification would be the place
I would start for looking for accessible, real world useful
problems you can solve right away.
Now, the Cargill Competition does not immediately
look like a classification competition.
What it contains, let me show you some data.
What it contains is data that looks like this.
It has a thing that they call anchor,
a thing they call target, a thing they call context,
and a score.
Now, these are, I can't remember exactly it.
I think these are from patents.
And I think on the patents, there are various things
they have to fill in in the patent.
And one of those things is called anchor.
One of those things is called target.
And in the competition, the goal is
to come up with a model that automatically determines
which anchor and target pairs are talking about the same thing.
So a score of one here, wood article and wooden article,
obviously talking about the same thing.
A score of zero here, abatement and forest region,
not talking about the same thing.
So the basic idea is we're trying to guess the score.
And it's kind of a classification problem, kind of not.
We're basically trying to classify things
into either these two things are the same,
or these two things aren't the same.
It's kind of not because we have not just one and zero,
but also 0.25, 0.5, 0.75.
There's also a column called context, which is, I believe,
is like the category that this patent was filed in.
And my understanding is that whether the anchor and the target
count as similar or not depends on what the patent was
filed under.
So how would we take this and turn it
into something like a classification problem?
So the suggestion I make here is that we could basically say,
OK, let's put some constant string like text one or field
one before the first column and then something else like text
two before the second column.
Oh, and maybe also the context I should have this well,
text three in the context, and then try to choose a category
of meaning similarity, different similar or identical.
So we could basically concatenate those three pieces together,
call that a document, and then try to train a model
that can predict these categories.
That'd be an example of how we can take this, basically,
similarity problem and turn it into something that
looks like a classification problem.
And we tend to do this a lot.
In deep learning is we kind of take problems
that look a bit novel and different and turn them
into a problem that looks like something we recognize.
Right, so on Kaggle, this is a larger data set
that you're going to need a GPU to run.
So you can click on the accelerator button and choose
GPU to make sure that you're using a GPU.
If you click copy and edit on my document,
I think that'll happen for you automatically.
Personally, I like using things like paper space
generally better than Kaggle.
Like Kaggle's pretty good, but you only
get 30 hours a week of GPU time and then notebook editor
for me is not as good as a real Jupyter lab.
Environment.
So there's some information here I won't go through,
but it basically describes how you can download stuff
to paper space or your own computer as well if you want to.
So I basically create this sort of Boolean always.
In my notebooks called is Kaggle, which is going to be true
if it's running on Kaggle and false otherwise.
And any little changes I need to make
are to say if is Kaggle and put those changes.
So here you can see here if I'm not on Kaggle,
and I don't have the data yet, then download it.
And Kaggle has a little API, which is quite handy,
for doing stuff like downloading data
and uploading notebooks and stuff like that,
submitting to competitions.
If we are on Kaggle, then the data
is already going to be there for us,
which is actually a good reason for beginners to use Kaggle
is you don't have to worry about grabbing the data at all.
It's sitting there for you as soon as you open the notebook.
Kaggle has a lot of Python packages installed,
but not necessarily all the ones you want.
And at the point I wrote this, they didn't have
hugging faces data sets package for some reason.
So you can always just install stuff.
So you might remember the explanation mark,
means this is not a Python command,
but a shell command, a bash command.
But it's quite neat, you can even put bash commands
inside Python conditionals.
So that's a pretty cool little trick in notebooks.
Another cool little trick in notebooks
is that if you do use a bash command, like LS,
but you then want to insert the contents
of a Python variable, just chuck it in parentheses.
So I've got a Python variable called path,
and I can go LS path in parentheses,
and that will LS the contents of the Python variable path.
So there's another little trick for you.
All right, so when we LS that,
we can see that there's some CSV files.
So what I'm going to do is kind of take you through,
roughly the process, the kind of process I,
you know, went through as, you know,
when I first look at a competition.
So the first thing is like already data set,
indeed, what's in it?
Okay, so it's got some CSV files.
You know, as well as looking at it here,
the other thing I would do is I would go
to the competition website, and if you go to data,
a lot of people skip over this, which is a terrible idea,
because it actually tells you what the dependent
variable means, what the different files are,
what the columns are, and so forth.
So don't just rely on looking at the data itself,
but look at the information that you've given
about the data.
So for CSV files, so CSV files are comma separated values.
So they're just text files with a comma between each field.
And we can read them using pandas,
which for some reason, always called PD.
Pandas is one of a gas lake,
I'm trying to think, probably like four key libraries
that you have to know to do data science in Python.
And specifically, those four libraries are NumPy,
Matplotlib, pandas, and PyTorch.
So NumPy is what we use for basic kind of numerical programming.
Matplotlib we use for plotting.
Pandas we use for tables of data,
and PyTorch we use for deep learning.
Those are all covered in a fantastic book
by the author as Pandas, which the new version
is actually available for free, I believe.
Python for data analysis.
So if you're not familiar with these libraries,
just read the whole book.
It doesn't take too long to get through
when it's got lots of cool tips and it's very readable.
I do find a lot of people doing this course.
Often I see people kind of trying to jump ahead
and want to be like, oh, I want to know how to create a new architecture
or build a speech recognition system or whatever.
But it then turns out that they don't know
how to use these fundamental libraries.
So it's always good to be bold and be trying to build things,
but do also take the time to make sure you finish reading
the first AI book and read at least,
whereas McKinney's book.
That would be enough to really give you
all the basic knowledge you need, I think.
So with Pandas, we can read a CSV file
and that creates something called a data frame,
which is just a table of data, as you see.
So now that we've got a data frame,
we can see what we're working with.
And when we ask, when in Jipita,
we just put the name of a variable containing a data frame.
We get the first five rows, the last five rows and the size.
So we've got 36,473 rows.
Okay.
So other things I like to use for understanding a data frame
is the describe method.
If you pass include equals object,
that will describe basically all the kind of the string fields,
the non numeric fields.
So in this case, there's four of those.
And so you can see here that that anchor field we looked at,
there's actually only 733 unique values.
Okay.
So this thing, you can see that there's lots of repetition
out of 30, 36,000.
So there's lots of repetition.
This is the most common one.
It appears 152 times.
And then context, we also see lots of repetition.
There's 106 of those contexts.
So this is a nice little method.
We can see a lot about the data in a glance.
And when I first saw this in this competition, I thought,
well, this is actually not that much language data when you think about it.
The, you know, each document is very short, you know, three or four words, really.
And lots of it is repeated.
So that's like, as I'm looking through it, I'm thinking like,
what are some key features to this data set?
And that would be something I'd be thinking, wow, that's, you know,
we've got to do a lot with not very much unique data here.
So here's how we can just go ahead and create a single string like I described,
which contains, you know, some kind of field separator plus the context,
the target, and the anchor.
So we've got to pop that into a field called input.
Something slightly weird in pandas is there's two ways of referring to a column.
You can use square brackets and a string to get the input column,
or you can just treat it as an attribute.
When you're setting it, you should always use the form seen here.
When reading it, you can use either.
I tend to use this one because it's less typing.
So you can see now we've got these concatenated rows.
So head is the first few rows.
So we've now got some documents to do an LP with.
Now, the problem is, as you know from the last lesson,
neural networks work with numbers.
We've got to take some numbers and we're going to multiply them by matrices.
We're going to replace the negatives with zeros,
net them up, and we're going to do that a few times.
That's our neural network.
Now with some little wrinkles, but that's the basic idea.
So how on earth do we do that for these strings?
So there's basically two steps we're going to take.
The first step is to split each of these into tokens.
Tokens are basically words.
We're going to split it into words.
There's a few problems with splitting things into words, though.
The first is that some languages like Chinese don't have words.
Or at least certainly not space separated words.
And in fact, in Chinese, sometimes it's a bit fuzzy to even say where a word begins and ends.
And some words are kind of not even the pieces are not next to each other.
Another reason is that what we're going to be doing is after we've split it into words,
or something like words, we're going to be getting a list of all of the unique words that appear,
which is called the vocabulary.
And every one of those unique words is going to get a number.
As you'll see later on, the bigger the vocabulary, the more memory is going to get used, the more data we'll need to train.
In general, we don't want a vocabulary to be too big.
So instead, nowadays people tend to tokenize into something called sub words, which is pieces of words.
So I'll show you what it looks like.
So the process of turning it into smaller units like words is called tokenization.
And because of them tokens instead of words, the token is just like the more general concept of whatever we're splitting it into.
So we're going to get hugging face transformers and hugging face data sets doing our work for us.
And so what we're going to do is we're going to turn our pandas data frame into a hugging face data sets dataset.
It's a bit confusing.
PyTorch has a class called dataset, and hugging face has a class called dataset, and they're different things.
So this is a hugging face dataset.
Hugging face datasets.
So we can turn a data frame into a dataset just using the from pandas method, and so we've now got a dataset.
So if we take a look, it just tells us all it's got these features.
Okay.
And remember, input is the one we just created with the concat and other strings.
And here's those 36,000 rows.
Okay, so now we're going to do these two things.
So we're going to do this tokenization, which is to split each text up into tokens, and then numericalization,
which is to turn each token into its unique ID based on where it is in the vocabulary.
The vocabulary remember being the unique, the list of unique tokens.
Now, particularly in this stage, tokenization, there's a lot of little decisions that have to be made.
The good news is you don't have to make them because whatever pre trained model you used,
the people that pre trained it made some decisions, and you're going to have to do exactly the same thing,
otherwise you'll end up with a different vocabulary to them, and that's going to mess everything up.
So that means before you start tokenizing, you have to decide on what model to use.
Hugging face transformers is a lot like Tim.
It has a library of, I believe, hundreds of models.
I guess I shouldn't say hugging face transformers.
It's really the hugging face model hub.
44,000 models. So even many more, even than Tim's image models.
And so these models, they vary in a couple of ways.
There's a variety of different architectures, just like in Tim.
But then something which is different to Tim is that each of those architectures can be trained on different
corpses for solving different problems.
So, for example, I could type patent and see if there's any pre trained patent, there is.
So there's a patent, there's a whole lot of pre trained patent models.
Isn't that amazing? So quite often, thanks to the hugging face model hub,
you can start your pre trained model with something that's actually pretty similar to what you actually want to do.
Or at least was trained on the same kind of documents.
Having said that, there are some just generally pretty good models that work for a lot of things a lot of the time.
And DeBerta V3 is certainly one of those.
This is a very new area.
NLP has been practically really effective for general users for only a year or two.
Whereas for computer vision, it's been quite a while.
So you'll find that a lot of things aren't as quite well better down.
I don't have a picture to show you of which models are the best or the fastest and the most accurate and whatever.
There's a lot of this stuff is like stuff that we're figuring out as a community using competitions like this.
In fact, and this is one of the first NLP competitions actually in the kind of modern NLP era.
So we've been studying these competitions closely and I can tell you that DeBerta is actually a really good starting point for a lot of things.
So that's why we've picked it.
So we pick our model and just like in Tim's image, our model is often going to be a small, medium, a large.
And of course, we should start with small.
Small is going to be faster to train, we're going to be able to do more iterations and so forth.
So at this point, remember, the only reason we picked our model is because we have to make sure we tokenize in the same way.
So tell transformers that we want to tokenize the same way that the people that built a model did, we use something called auto tokenizer.
It's nothing fancy.
It's basically just a dictionary which says, oh, which model uses which tokenizer.
So when we say auto tokenizer from pre trained, it will download the vocabulary and the details about how this particular model, tokenized data set.
At this point, we can now take that tokenizer and pass the string to it.
So if I pass the string, good a folks, I'm Jeremy from fast.ai, you'll see it's kind of putting it into words, kind of not.
So if you've ever wondered whether good a is one word or two, you know, it's actually three tokens according to this tokenizer.
And I'm three tokens and fast.ai is three tokens.
This punctuation is a token.
So you kind of get the idea.
These underscores here, that represents the start of a word.
So that's kind of this concept that like the start of a word is kind of part of the token.
So if you see a capital I in the middle of a word versus the start of a word, that's kind of means a different thing.
So this is what happens when we tokenize this sentence using the tokenizer that the deburd of the tokenizer is going to be a little bit different.
So that's the deburd of the three developers used.
So here's a less common, unless you're a big platypus fan like me, less common sentence.
A platypus is an orno throuincus sanitinus.
And so, okay, in this particular vocabulary, platypus got its own word, it's own token, but orno throuincus didn't.
So I still remember grade one, for some reason our teacher got us all to learn how to spell orno throuincus.
So one of my favorite words.
So you can see here it's been split into all, knee, toe, rink, us.
So every one of these tokens you see here is going to be in the vocabulary, right?
So we have the list of unique tokens that was created when this particular model, this pretrain model was first trained.
So somewhere in that list we'll find underscore capital A, and it'll have a number.
And so that's how we'll be able to turn these into numbers.
So this first process is called tokenization, and then the thing where we take these tokens and turn them into numbers is called numericalization.
So our data set, remember we put our string into the input field.
So here's a function that takes a document, grabs its input and tokenizes it.
Okay, so we'll call this our tokenization function.
Tokenization can take a minute or two, so we may as well get all of our processes doing it at the same time to save some time.
So if you use the data set dot map, it will parallelize that process and just pass in your function.
Make sure you pass batch equals true so it can do a bunch at a time.
And behind the scenes this is going through something called the tokenizes library, which is a pretty optimized rust library that uses, you know, SIMD and parallel processing and so forth.
So with batch equals true, it'll be able to do more stuff at once.
So look, it only took six seconds, so pretty fast.
So now when we look at a row of our tokenized data set, it's going to contain exactly the same as our original data set.
No, it's not going to take exactly the same as the original data set.
It's going to contain exactly the same input as our original data set.
And it's also going to contain a bunch of numbers.
So these numbers are the position in the vocabulary of each of the tokens in the string.
So we've now successfully turned a string into a list of numbers.
So that is a great first step.
So we can see how this works.
We can see, for example, that we've got of at a separate word, so that's going to be an underscore OF in the vocabulary.
We can grab the vocabulary, look up of, find that it's 265, and check here.
Yep, here it is, 265.
Okay, so it's not rocket science right, it's just looking stuff up in a dictionary to get the numbers.
Okay, so that is the tokenization and the numericalization necessary in NLP to turn our documents into numbers to allow us to put it into our model.
Any questions so far, John?
Excuse me, yeah, thanks Jeremy.
So there's a couple and this seems like a good time to throw them out and it's related to how you've formatted your input data into these sentences that you've just tokenized.
Yeah, so one question was really about how you choose those keywords and the order of the fields.
So I guess just interested in an explanation, is it more art or science?
No, it's arbitrary.
I tried a few things, I tried X, I tried putting them backwards, it doesn't matter.
We just want some way, something that it can learn from.
So if I just concatenated it without these headers before each one, it wouldn't know where abatement of pollution ended and where abatement started.
So I did just something that it can learn from, this is a nice thing about neural nets, they're so flexible.
As long as you give it the information somehow, it doesn't really matter how you give it to give it the information as long as it's there.
I could have used punctuation, I could have put like, I don't know, one semicolon here and two here and three here.
Yeah, it's not a big deal.
At the level where you're trying to get an extra half a percent to get up the later border of Kaggle competition,
you may find tweaking these things makes tiny differences, but in practice, you won't generally find it, it matters too much.
Right, thank you.
And I guess the second part of that, excuse me again, somebody's asking if one of their fields was a particularly long,
say it was a thousand characters, is there any special handling required there?
Do you need to re inject those kind of special market tokens?
Does it change if you've got much bigger fields that you're trying to learn and query?
Long documents and ULM fit require no special consideration.
So IMDB in fact has multi thousand word movie reviews and it works great.
To this day, ULM fit is probably the best approach for reasonably quickly and easily using large documents.
Otherwise, if you use transformer based approaches, large documents are challenging.
Specifically, transformers have to do the whole document at once,
where ULM fit can split it into multiple pieces and read it gradually.
And so that means you'll find that people trying to work with large documents tend to spend a lot of money on GPUs
because they need the big fancy ones with lots of memory.
So generally speaking, I would say if you're trying to do stuff with documents of over two thousand words,
you might want to look at ULM fit.
Try transformers, see if it works for you, but I'd certainly try both.
For under two thousand words, transformers should be fine unless you've got a, you know, nothing but like a laptop GPU or something with not much memory.
So, how can face transformers have these, you know, as I say it right now that I find them somewhat obscure
and not particularly well documented expectations about your data that you kind of have to figure out.
And one of those is that it expects that your target is a column called labels.
So once I figured that out, I just went, got our tokenized data set and renamed our score column to labels and everything started working.
So probably is, you know, I don't know if at some point they'll make this a bit more flexible,
but probably best to just call your target labels and life will be easy.
You might have seen back when I went LS path that there was another data set there called test.csv.
And if you look at it, it looks a lot like our training set, our other CSV that we've been working with,
but it's missing the score, the labels.
This is called a test set.
And so we're going to talk a little bit about that now because my claim here is perhaps the most important idea in machine learning
is the idea of having separate training, validation and test data sets.
So test and validation sets are all about identifying and controlling for something called overfitting.
And we're going to try and learn about this through example.
So this is the same information that's in that Kaggle notebook. I've just put it on some slides here.
So I'm going to create a function here called plot poly.
And I'm actually going to use the same data that I don't know if you remember.
We used it earlier for trying to fit this quadratic.
We created some x and some y data. This is the data we're going to use.
And we're going to use this to look at overfitting.
So the details of this function don't matter too much.
What matters is what we do with it, which is that it allows us to basically pass in the degree of a polynomial.
So for those of you that remember, a first degree polynomial is just a line.
It's y equals ax. A second degree polynomial will be y equals a squared x plus b x plus c.
Third degree polynomial will have a cubic fourth degree, you know, quartic and so forth.
And what I've done here is I've plotted what happens if we try to fit a line to our data.
It doesn't fit very well. So what happened here is we did a linear regression.
And what we're using here is a very cool library called scikit.
Scikit. I think it's mainly designed for classic machine learning methods,
like linear regression and stuff like that.
I mean very advanced versions of these things. But it's also great for doing these quick and dirty things.
So in this case, I wanted to do a, what's called a polynomial regression, which is fitting the polynomial to data.
And it's just these two lines of code. It's a super nice library.
So in this case, a degree one polynomial is just a line.
So I fit it and then I show it with the data. And there it is.
Now that's what we call underfit, which is to say there's not enough kind of complexity in this model.
I fit to match the data that's there.
So an underfit model is a problem. It's going to be systematically biased.
All the stuff up here, we're going to predict in too low.
All the stuff down here, we're predicting too low. All the stuff in the middle.
We'll be predicting too high. A common misunderstanding is that like simpler models are kind of more reliable in some way.
But models that are too simple will be systematically incorrect, as you see here.
What happens if we fit a 10 degree polynomial?
That's not great either. In this case, it's not really showing us what the actual,
remember this is originally a quadratic, this is meant to match, right?
And at the end here, it's predicting things that are way above what we would expect in real life.
And it's trying really hard to get through this point.
But clearly this point was just some noise. So this is what we call overfit.
It's done a good job of fitting to our exact data points.
But if we sample some more data points from this distribution,
honestly, we probably would suspect they're not going to be very close to this, particularly if they're a bit beyond the edges.
So that's what overfitting looks like. We don't want underfitting all overfitting.
Now, underfitting is actually pretty easy to recognize because we can actually look at our training data and see that it's not very close.
Overfitting is a bit harder to recognize because the training data is actually very close.
On the other hand, here's what happens if we fit the quadratic.
And here I've got both the real line and the fit line, and you can see they're pretty close.
And that's, of course, what we actually want.
So how do we tell whether we have something more like this or something more like this?
Well, what we do is we do something pretty straightforward, is we take our original data set, these points,
and we remove a few of them. Let's say 20% of them.
We then fit our model using only those points we haven't removed.
And then we measure how good it is by looking at only the points we removed.
So in this case, let's say we had removed, I'm just trying to think, if I'd removed this point here,
then it might have kind of gone off down over here.
And so then when we look at how well it fits, we would say, oh, this one's miles away.
The data that we take away and don't let the model see it when it's training is called the validation set.
So in first AI, we've seen splitters before, right?
The splitters are the things that separate out the validation set.
First AI won't let you train a model without a validation set.
First AI always shows you your metrics, so things like accuracy, measured only on the validation set.
This is really unusual. Most libraries make it really easy to shoot yourself in the foot by not having a validation set
or accidentally not using it correctly. So first AI won't even let you do that.
So you've got to be particularly careful when using other libraries.
So Huckingface transformers is good about this, so they make sure that they do show you your metrics on a validation set.
Now creating a good validation set is not generally as simple as just randomly pulling some of your data out of your model,
out of the data that you've passed, that you train with your model.
The reason why is imagine that this was the data you were trying to fit something to.
Okay. And you randomly remove some, so it looks like this.
That looks very easy, doesn't it? Because you've kind of like still got all the data you would want around the points.
And in a time series like this, this is dates and sales, in real life you're probably going to want to predict future dates.
So if you created your validation set by randomly removing stuff from the middle,
it's not really a good indication of how you're going to be using this model.
Instead, you should truncate and remove the last couple of weeks.
So if this was your validation set, and this is your training set,
that's going to be actually testing whether you can use this to predict the future rather than using it to predict the past.
Kaggle competitions are a fantastic way to test your ability to create a good validation set.
Because Kaggle competitions only allow you to submit generally a couple of times a day.
The data set that you are scored on in the leaderboard during that time is actually only a small subset.
In fact, it's a totally separate subset to the one you'll be scored on on the end of the competition.
And so most beginners on Kaggle overfit.
And it's not until you've done it that you will get that visceral feeling of like,
oh my God, I overfit.
In the real world outside of Kaggle, you will often not even know that you overfit.
You just destroy value if you're an organization silently.
So it's a really good idea to do this kind of stuff on Kaggle a few times first in real competitions
to really make sure that you are confident you know how to avoid overfitting,
how to find a good validation set and how to interpret it correctly.
And you really don't get that until you screw it up a few times.
A good example of this was there was a distracted driver competition on Kaggle.
There were these kind of pictures from inside a car.
And the idea was that you had to try and predict whether somebody was driving in a distracted way or not.
And on Kaggle, they did something pretty smart.
The test set, so the thing that they scored you on on the leaderboard,
contained people that didn't exist at all in the competition data that you trained the model with.
So if you wanted to create an effective validation set in this competition,
you would have to make sure that you separated the photos
so that your validation set contained photos of people that aren't in the data you're training your model on.
There was another one like that, the Kaggle fisheries competition,
which had boats that didn't appear.
So there were basically pictures of boats and you meant to try to predict what fish were in the pictures.
And it turned out that a lot of people accidentally figured out what the fish were
by looking at the boat because certain boats tended to catch certain kinds of fish.
And so by messing up their validation set, they were really overconfident of the accuracy of their model.
I'll mention in passing, if you've been around Kaggle a bit, you'll see people talk about cross validation a lot.
I'm just going to mention, be very, very careful.
Cross validation is explicitly not about building a good validation set.
So you've got to be super, super careful if you ever do that.
Another thing I'll mention is that scikit learn conveniently offers something called train test split
as does hugging face data sets, as does fast AI, we have something called random splitter.
It can be encouraged, it can almost feel like it's encouraging you to use a randomised validation set
because there are these methods that do it for you.
But be very, very careful because very, very often that's not what you want.
Okay, so if you want what a validation set is, so that's the bit that you pull out of your data
that you don't train with, but you do measure your accuracy with.
So what's a test set?
It's basically another validation set.
But you don't even use it for tracking your accuracy while you build your model.
Why not?
Well, imagine you tried two new models every day for three months.
That's how long a Kaggle competition goes for.
So you would have tried 180 models.
And then you look at the accuracy on the validation set for each one.
Some of those models, you would have got a good accuracy on the validation set, potentially,
because of pure chance, just a coincidence.
And then you get all excited and you submit that to Kaggle and you think you're going to win the competition
and you mess it up.
And that's because you actually overfit using the validation set.
So you actually want to know whether you've really found a good model or not.
So in fact, on Kaggle, they have two test sets.
They've got the one that gives you feedback on the leaderboard during the competition and a second test set,
which you don't get to see until after the competition is finished.
So in real life, you've got to be very careful about this not to try so many models during your model building process
that you accidentally find one that's good by coincidence.
And only if you have a test set that you've held out or you know that.
Now that leads to the obvious question, which is very challenging.
Is if you spent three months working on a model, worked well on your validation set,
you did a good job of locking that test set away in a safe so you weren't allowed to use it.
And at the end of the three months, you finally checked in on the test set and it's terrible.
What do you do?
Honestly, you have to go back to square one.
You know, there really isn't any choice other than starting again.
So this is tough, but it's better to know, right?
Better to know than to not know.
That's what a test sets for.
So you've got a validation set.
What are you going to do with it?
What you're going to do with a validation set is you're going to measure some metrics.
So a metric is something like accuracy.
It's a number that tells you how good is your model.
Now on Kaggle, this is very easy.
What metric should we use?
Go to overview, click on evaluation, and find out and it says, oh, we will evaluate on the
Pearson correlation coefficient.
Therefore, this is the metric you care about.
So one obvious question is, is this the same as the lost function?
Is this the thing that we will take the derivative of and find the gradient and use that to improve
our parameters during training?
And the answer is maybe sometimes, but probably not.
For example, consider accuracy.
Now, if we were using accuracy to calculate our derivative and get the gradient, you could have a
model that's actually slightly better.
It's doing a better job of recognizing dogs and cats.
But not so much better that it's actually caused any incorrectly classified cat to become a
dog.
So the accuracy doesn't change at all.
So the gradient is zero.
You don't want stuff like that.
You don't want bumpy functions because they don't have nice gradients.
Often they don't have gradients at all.
They're basically zero nearly everywhere.
You want to function that's nice and smooth.
Something like, for instance, the average absolute error, which we've used before.
So that's the difference between your metrics and your loss.
Now, be careful, right?
Because when you're training, your model is spending all of its time trying to improve the loss.
And most of the time, that's not the same as the thing you actually care about, which is your
metric.
So you've got to keep those two different things in mind.
The other thing to keep in mind is that in real life, you can't go to a website and be
told what metric to use.
In real life, the model that you choose, there isn't one number that tells you whether it's
good or bad.
And even if there was, you wouldn't be able to find it out ahead of time.
In real life, the model you use is a part of a complex process, often involving humans,
both as users and customers and as people involved in as part of the process.
There's all kinds of things that are changing over time.
And there's lots and lots of outcomes of decisions that are made.
One metric is not enough to capture all of that.
Unfortunately, because it's so convenient to pick one metric and use that to say, I've
got a good model, that very often finds its way into industry, into government, where
people roll out these things that are good on the one metric that happened to be easy
to measure.
And again and again, we found people's lives turned upside down because of how badly they
get screwed up by models that have been incorrectly measured using a single metric.
So my partner Rachel Thomas has written this article, which I recommend you read about
the problem with metrics is a big problem for AI.
It's not just an AI thing.
There's actually this thing called Guttart's law that states when a measure becomes a target,
it ceases to be a good measure.
The thing is, so when I was a management consultant, 20 years ago, we were always kind of part
of these strategic things, trying to find key performance indicators and ways to kind
of set commission rates for salespeople.
We were doing a lot of this stuff, which is basically about picking metrics.
And we see that happen go wrong in industry all the time.
AI is dramatically worse because AI is so good at optimizing metrics.
And so that's why you have to be extra, extra, extra careful about metrics when you are trying
to use a model in real life.
Anyway, as I said in Kaggle, we don't have to worry about any of that.
We are going to use the Pearson correlation coefficient, which is all very well, as long
as you know what the hell the Pearson correlation coefficient is.
If you don't, let's learn about it.
So Pearson correlation coefficient is usually a beauty of using the other R, and it's the
most widely used measure of how similar two variables are.
And so if your predictions are very similar to the real values, then the Pearson correlation
coefficient will be high, and that's what you want.
R can be between minus one and one.
Minus one means you predicted exactly the wrong answer, which in a Kaggle competition
would be great because then you can just reverse all of your answers and you'll be perfect.
Plus one means you got everything exactly correct.
Generally speaking, in courses or textbooks, when they teach you about the Pearson correlation
coefficient, at this point they will show you a mathematical function.
I'm not going to do that because that tells you nothing about the Pearson correlation
coefficient.
What we actually care about is not the mathematical function but how it behaves.
And I find most people, even who work in data science, have not actually looked at a bunch
of data sets to understand how R behaves.
So let's do that right now so that you're not one of those people.
The best way I find to understand how data behaves in real life is to look at real life
data.
So there's a dataset, a Scikit Learn comes with a number of datasets, and one of them
is called California Housing, and it's a dataset where each row is a district.
And it's kind of demographic, sorry, it's information, demographic information about
different districts and about the value of houses in that district.
I'm not going to try to plot the whole things that's too big, and this is a very common
question I have from people is how do I plot datasets with far too many points?
The answer is very simple, debtless points.
So I just randomly grab a thousand points.
Whatever you see with a thousand points, it's going to be the same as what you see with
a million points.
There's no point, no reason to plot huge amounts of data generally.
Describe a random sample.
Now NumPy has something called core coef to get the correlation coefficient between every
variable and every other variable.
And it returns a matrix.
So I can look down here and so for example here is the correlation coefficient between
variable one and variable one, which of course is exactly perfectly 1.0, right?
Because variable one is the same as variable one.
Here is the small inverse correlation between variable one and variable two, and medium sized
positive correlation between variable one and variable three and so forth.
This is symmetric about the diagonal because the correlation between variable one and variable
eight is the same as the correlation between variable eight and variable one.
So this is a correlation coefficient matrix.
So that's great when we want to get a bunch of values all at once.
For the Kaggle competition, we don't want that.
We just want a single correlation number.
If we just pass in a pair of variables, we still get a matrix, which is kind of weird.
It's kind of weird, but it's not what we want.
So we should grab one of these.
So when I want to grab a correlation coefficient, I'll just return the zero through first column.
So that's what core is.
That's going to be our single correlation coefficient.
So let's look at the correlation between two things.
For example, median income and medium house value.
0.67.
Okay.
Is that high?
Medium?
Low?
How big is that?
What does it look like?
So the main thing we need to understand is what these things look like.
So what I suggest we do is we're going to take a 10 minute break, nine minute break.
We'll come back in half past, and then we're going to look at some examples of correlation
coefficients.
Okay.
Welcome back.
So what I've done here is I've created a little function called show correlations.
I'm going to pass in a data frame and a couple of columns as strings.
I'm going to grab each of those columns as series, do a scatter plot, and then show the
correlation.
So we already mentioned medium income and medium house valuation of 0.68.
So here it is.
Here's what 0.68 looks like.
So I don't know if you had some intuition about what you expected, but as you can see,
it's still plenty of variation, even at that reasonably high correlation.
Also, you can see here that visualizing your data is very important if you're working with
this data set, because you can immediately see all these dots along here.
That's clearly truncation.
Right?
So this is like when it's not until you look at pictures like this that you're going to
pick stuff like this.
Pictures are great.
Oh, little trick.
On the scatter plot, I put alpha is 0.5, that creates some transparency.
For these kind of scatter plots, that really helps because it kind of creates darker areas
in places where there's lots of dots.
So yeah, alpha in scatter plots is nice.
Okay, here's another pair.
So this one's gone down from 0.68 to 0.43, median income versus the number of rooms per
house.
As you would expect, more rooms, it's more income.
But this is a very weird looking thing.
Now, you'll find that a lot of these statistical measures, like correlation, rely on the square
of the difference.
And when you have big outliers like this, the square of the difference goes crazy.
And so this is another place we'd want to look at the data first and say, oh, that's
going to be a bit of an issue.
There's probably more correlation here.
But there's a few examples of some houses with lots and lots of room where people that
aren't very rich live.
Maybe these are some kind of shared accommodation or something.
So R is very sensitive to outliers.
So let's get rid of the houses, the rooms with 15 rooms, the houses with 15 rooms or
more.
And now you can see it's gone up from 0.43 to 0.68.
Even though we probably only got rid of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, even, we only got rid of 7 data
points.
So we're going to be very careful of outliers.
And that means if you're trying to win a cackle competition where the metric is correlation
and you just get a couple of rows really badly wrong, then it's going to be a disaster to
your score.
So you've got to make sure that you do a pretty good job of every row.
So there's what a correlation of 0.68 looks like.
Okay, here's a correlation of 0.34.
And this is kind of interesting, isn't it?
Because 0.34 sounds like quite a good relationship, but you almost can't see it.
So this is something I strongly suggest is if you're working with a new metric, it's
to draw some pictures of a few different levels of that metric to kind of try to get a feel
for like, what does it mean?
What does 0.6 look like?
What does 0.3 look like?
And so forth.
And here's an example of a correlation of minus 0.2.
This is very slight negative slope.
Okay, so there's just more of a kind of a general tip of something I like to do when
playing with a new metric.
And I recommend you do as well.
I think we've now got a sense of what the correlation feels like.
Now you can go look up the equation on Wikipedia if you're into that kind of thing.
We need to report the correlation after each epoch because we want to know how our training
is going.
Hugging face expects you to return a dictionary because it's going to use the keys of the
dictionary to label each metric.
So here's something that gets the correlation and returns it as a dictionary with the label
Pearson.
Okay, so we've done metrics.
We've done our training validation split.
Oh, we might have actually skipped over the bit where we actually did the split, did I?
I did.
So to actually do the split, because in this Kaggle competition, I've got another one
that we'll look at later where we actually split this properly.
But here we're just going to do a random split just to keep things simple for now.
Of 25% of the data will be a validation set.
So if we go Ds train test split, it returns a data set dict, which has a train and a test.
So that looks a lot like a data sets object in fast.io, very similar idea.
So this will be the thing that we'll be able to train with.
So it's going to train with this data set and return the metrics on this data set.
This is really a validation set, but hugging face data sets calls a test.
Okay.
We're now ready to train our model.
In Fast.io, we use something called a learner.
The equivalent in hugging face transformers is called trainer.
So we'll bring that in.
Something we'll learn about quite shortly is the idea of mini batches and batch sizes.
In short, each time we pass some data to our model for training, it's going to send through
a few rows at a time to the GPU so that it can calculate those in parallel.
Those bunch of rows is called a batch or a mini batch and the number of rows is called
the batch size.
So here we're going to set the batch size to 128.
Generally speaking, the larger your batch size, the more it can do in parallel at once
and it'll be faster.
But if you make it too big, you're going to add a memory error on your GPU.
So it's a bit of trial and error to find a batch size that works.
Epoxy we've seen before.
Then we've got the learning rate.
We'll talk in the next lesson, unless we get to this lesson, about a technique to automatically
find a, or semi automatically find a good learning rate.
We already know what a learning rate is from the last lesson.
I played around and found one that seems to train quite quickly without falling apart.
So I just tried a few.
Generally if I don't have a, so Hackingface transformers doesn't have something to help
you find the learning rate, the integration we're doing in FastDI will let you do that.
But if you're using a framework that doesn't have that, you can just start with a really
low learning rate and then kind of double it and keep doubling it until it falls apart.
Hackingface transformers uses this thing called training arguments, which is a class where
you just provide all of the kind of configuration.
So you have to tell it what your learning rate is.
This stuff here is the same as what we call basically fit one cycle in FastDI.
You always want this to be true because it's going to be faster pretty much.
And then this stuff here, you can probably use exactly the same every time.
There's a lot of boilerplate compared to FastDI as you see.
This stuff you can probably use the same every time.
So we now need to create our model.
So the equivalent of the vision learner function that we've used to automatically create a
reasonable vision model in Hackingface transformers.
We've got lots of different ones depending on what you're trying to do.
So we're trying to do classification as we've discussed of sequences.
So if we call auto model for sequence classification, it will create a model that is appropriate
for classifying sequences from a pretrained model.
And this is the name of the model that we used earlier, the de Burda V3.
It has to know when it adds that random matrix to the end, how many outputs it needs to
have.
So we have one label, which is the score.
So that's going to create our model.
And then this is the equivalent of creating a learner.
It contains a model and the data.
The training data and the test data.
Again, there's a lot more boilerplate here than FastDI, but you can kind of see the same
basic steps here.
We just have to do a little bit more manually.
But it's not, you know, there's nothing too crazy.
So it's going to tokenize it for us using that function.
And then these are the matrix that will print out each time.
That's that little function we created, which returns a dictionary.
At the moment, I find hugging face transformers very verbose.
It spits out lots and lots and lots of text, which you can ignore.
And we can finally call train, which will spit out much more text again, which you can
ignore.
And as you can see, as it trains, it's printing out the loss.
And here's our Pearson correlation coefficient.
So it's training.
And we've got a.834 correlation.
That's pretty cool, right?
I mean, it took, what does it actually say, but it just took a, oh, here we are, five
minutes to run.
Maybe that's five minutes per epoch on Kaggle, which doesn't have particularly great GPUs,
but good for free.
And we've got something that is, you know, got a very high level of correlation in assessing
how similar the two columns are.
And the only reason it could do that is because it used a pre trained model, right?
There's no way you could just have that tiny amount of information and figure out whether
those two columns are very similar.
This pre trained model already knows a lot about language.
It already has a good sense of whether two phrases are similar or not.
And we've just fine tuned it.
You can see, given that after one epoch, it was already at.8, you know, we, this was
a model that already did something pretty close to what we needed.
It didn't really need that much extra tuning for this particular task.
I've got any questions there, John?
Yeah, we do.
It's actually a bit back on the topic before where you were showing us the visual interpretation
of the Pearson coefficient.
And you were talking about outliers.
Yeah, and we've got a question here from Kevin asking, how do you decide when it's okay
to remove outliers?
Like you pointed out some in that data set.
And clearly your model is going to train a lot better if you clean that up.
But I think Kevin's point here is, you know, those kinds of outliers will probably exist
in the test set as well.
So I think he's just looking for some practical advice on how you handle that in a more general
sense.
So outliers should never just be removed, like for modeling.
So if we take the example of the California housing data set, you know, if I was really
working with that data set in real life, I would be saying, oh, that's interesting.
It seems like there's a separate group of districts with a different kind of behavior.
Yeah, my guess is that they're going to be kind of like dorms or something like that,
probably low income housing.
And so I would be saying like, oh, clearly from looking at this data set, these two different
groups can't be treated the same way.
They have very different behaviors.
And I would probably split them into two separate analyses.
You know, the word outlier, it kind of exists in a statistical sense, right?
There can be things that are well outside our normal distribution and mess up our kind
of metrics and things.
It doesn't exist in a real sense.
It doesn't exist in a sense of like, oh, things that we should like ignore or throw
away.
You know, some of the most useful kind of insights I've had in my life in data projects
has been by digging into outliers, so called outliers and understanding, well, what are
they?
Where did they come from?
And it's kind of often in those edge cases that you discover really important things
about like where processes go wrong or about kinds of behaviors you didn't even know existed
or indeed about kind of labeling problems or process problems which you really want to
fix them at the source because otherwise when you go into production, you're going to have
more of those so called outliers.
So yeah, I'd say never delete outliers without investigating them and having a strategy for
like understanding where they came from and like, what should you do about them?
All right, so now that we've got a trained model, you'll see that it actually behaves
really a lot like a fast AI learner and hopefully the impression you'll get from going through
this process is largely a sense of familiarity.
And I've like, oh, yeah, this looks like stuff I've seen before, you know, like a bit more
wordy and some slight changes, but it really is very, very similar to the way we've done
it before because now that we've got a trained trainer rather than learner, we can call predict.
And now we're going to pass in our data set from the Kaggle test file.
And so that's going to give us our predictions which we can cast to float.
And here they are.
So here are the predictions we made of similarity.
Now again, not just for your inputs, but also for your outputs, always look at them,
always, right?
And interestingly, I looked at quite a few Kaggle notebooks from other people for this
competition and nearly all of them had the problem we have right now, which is negative
predictions and predictions over one.
So I'll be showing you how to fix this in a more proper way, maybe hopefully in the
next lesson.
But for now, we could at least just round these off, right?
Because we know that none of the scores are going to be bigger than one or smaller than
zero.
So our correlation coefficient will definitely improve if we at least round this up to zero
and round this down to one.
As I say, there are better ways to do this, but that's certainly better than nothing.
So in PyTorch, you might remember from when we looked at RallyU, there's a thing called
clip, and that will clip everything under zero to zero and everything over one to one.
And so now that looks much better.
So here's our predictions.
So Kaggle expects submissions to generally be in a CSV file and Hacking Face data sets,
kind of looks a lot like pandas, really.
We can create our submission file from without two columns, called dot to CSV.
And there we go.
That's basically it.
So yeah, it's kind of nice to see how, in the sense how far deep learning has come since
we started this course a few years ago, that nowadays there are multiple libraries around
to kind of do the same thing.
We can use them in multiple application areas.
They all look kind of pretty familiar.
They're reasonably beginner friendly.
And NLP, because it's kind of like the most recent area that's really become effective
in the last year or two, is probably where the biggest opportunities are for big wins
both in research and commercialization.
And so if you're looking to build a startup, for example, one of the key things that VCs
look for, that they'll ask is like, well, why now?
Why would you build this company now?
And of course, with NLP, the answer is really simple.
It's like, it can often be like, well, until last year, this wasn't possible.
Or it took 10 times more time, or it took 10 times more money, or whatever.
So I think NLP is a huge opportunity area.
Okay, so it's worth thinking about both use and misuse of modern NLP.
And I want to show you a subreddit.
Here is a conversation on a subreddit from a couple of years ago.
I'll let you have a quick read of it.
So the question I want you to be thinking about is, what subreddit do you think this
comes from?
This debate about military spending.
And the answer is it comes from a subreddit that post automatically generated conversations
between GPT two models.
Now this is a totally previous generation of model.
They're much, much better now.
So even then, you could see these models were generating context appropriate, believable
pros.
You know, I would strongly believe that like any of our kind of like, our peteer of competent
fast AI alumni would be fairly easily able to create a bot which could create context
appropriate pros on Twitter or Facebook groups or whatever, you know, arguing for a side
of an argument.
And you could scale that up such that 99% of Twitter was these bots.
And nobody would know, you know, nobody would know.
And that's very worrying to me because a lot of, you know, a lot of kind of the way people
see the world is now really coming out of their social media conversations, which at
this point they're controllable.
Like, it would not be that hard to create something that's kind of optimized towards
being a point of view amongst a billion people.
You know, in a very subtle way, very gradually over a long period of time by multiple bots
each pretending to argue with each other and one of them getting the upper hand and so
forth.
Here is the start of an article in The Guardian, which I'll let you read.
This article was, you know, quite long.
These are just the first few paragraphs.
And at the end it explains that this article was written by GPT3.
It was given the instruction, please write a short op out around 500 words, keep the
language simple and concise, focus on why humans have nothing to fear from AI.
So GPT3 produced eight outputs and then they say basically the editors at The Guardian did
about the same level of editing that they would do for humans.
In fact, they found it a bit less editing required than humans.
So, you know, again, you can create longer pieces of context appropriate prose designed
to argue a particular point of view.
What kind of things might this be used for?
We won't know probably for decades, if ever, but sometimes we get a clue based on older
technology.
Here's something from back 2017 in the pre kind of deep learning in our P days.
There were millions of submissions to the FTC about the net neutrality situation in America.
Very, very heavily biased towards the point of view of saying we want to get rid of net
neutrality.
An analysis by Jeff Cow showed that something like 99% of them, and in particular nearly
all of the ones which were pro removal of net neutrality, were clearly auto generated.
By basically if you look at the green, there's like selecting from a menu.
So we've got Americans as opposed to Washington bureaucrats deserve to enjoy the services they
desire.
Individuals as opposed to Washington bureaucrats should be just little people like me as opposed
to so called experts should be.
And you get the idea.
Now this is an example of a very, very simple approach to auto generating huge amounts of
text.
We don't know for sure, but it looks like this might have been successful because this went
through.
You know, despite what seems to be actually overwhelming disagreement from the public
that everybody, almost everybody likes, net neutrality, the FTC got rid of it.
And this was a big part of the basis was like, oh, we got all these comments from the public
and everybody said they don't want net neutrality.
So imagine a similar thing where you absolutely couldn't do this.
You couldn't figure it out because everyone was really very compelling and very different.
That's, you know, it's kind of worrying about how we do with that.
You know, I will say when I talk about this stuff often people say, oh, no worries, we'll
be able to model to recognize, you know, bot generated content.
But, you know, if I put my black hat on, I'm like, no, that's not going to work, right?
If you told me to build something that beats the bot classifiers, I'd say, no worries,
easy.
You know, I will take the code or the service or service or whatever that does the bot
classifying and I will include beating that in my loss function and I will fine tune my
model until it beats the bot classifier.
You know, when I used to run an email company we had a similar problem with spam prevention.
You know, spammers could always take a spam prevention algorithm and change their emails
until it didn't get the spam prevention algorithm anymore, for example.
So yeah, so I'm really excited about the opportunities for students in this course to build, you
know, I think very valuable businesses, really cool research and so forth using these pretty
new NLP techniques that are now pretty accessible and I'm also really worried about the things
that might go wrong.
I do think though that the more people that understand these capabilities, the less chance
they'll go wrong.
John, was there some questions?
Yeah, I mean it's a throwback to the workbook that you had before.
Yeah, that's the one.
The question, Manakhandan is asking, shouldn't num labels be 5, 0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.751 instead
of 1?
Isn't the target a categorical or are we considering this as a regression problem?
Yeah, it's a good question.
So there's one label because there's one column.
Even if this was being treated as a categorical problem with five categories, it's still considered
one label.
In this case though, we're actually treating it as a regression problem.
It's just one of the things that's a bit tricky, I was trying to figure this out just the other
day.
It's not documented as far as I can tell on the Hugging First Transformers website but
if you pass in one label to auto model for sequence classification, it turns it into
a regression problem which is actually why we ended up with predictions that were less
than 0 and bigger than 1.
So we'll be learning next time about the use of sick void functions to resolve this problem
and that should fix it up for us.
Okay, great.
Well thanks everybody.
I hope you enjoyed learning about NLP.
As much as I enjoyed putting this together, I'm really excited about it and can't wait
for next week's lesson.
So yeah.